## Chain of rules

You can use multiple rules to validate a value. `bcx-validation` will merge all error messages into one single array.

<div><code-viewer value="validation.validate('lorem', [
 {validate: /[a-z]/, message: 'must contain lower case letter'},
 {validate: /[A-Z]/, message: 'must contain upper case letter'},
 {validate: /\d/, message: 'must contain digit'},
]);
// => ['must contain upper case letter', 'must contain digit']" mode="js"></code-viewer></div>

When `bcx-validation` validates the value, you have chance to break the chain (stop it early) using reserved keys `stopValidationChainIfFail` and `stopValidationChainIfPass`. Here the 3rd rule is skipped because of failure on the 2nd rule.

<div><code-viewer value="validation.validate('lorem', [
 {validate: /[a-z]/, message: 'must contain lower case letter', stopValidationChainIfFail: true},
 {validate: /[A-Z]/, message: 'must contain upper case letter', stopValidationChainIfFail: true},
 {validate: /\d/, message: 'must contain digit'},
]);
// => ['must contain upper case letter']" mode="js"></code-viewer></div>

`bcx-validation` also provides three validators to support easy early break of chain. `passImmediatelyIf`, `skipImmediatelyIf`, `failImmediatelyIf`.

<div><code-viewer value="var rule = [
  {validate: 'passImmediatelyIf', value: &quot;$value == 'NA'&quot;},
  {validate: 'failImmediatelyIf', value: '_.isEmpty($value)', message: 'must not be empty'},
  {validate: /[a-z]/, message: 'must contain lower case letter', stopValidationChainIfFail: true},
  {validate: /[A-Z]/, message: 'must contain upper case letter', stopValidationChainIfFail: true},
  {validate: /\d/, message: 'must contain digit'},
];

validation.validate('NA', rule);
// => undefined

validation.validate('', rule);
// => ['must not be empty']" mode="js"></code-viewer></div>

Here the first validation checks if value is `"NA"`, stop the validation chain immediately and return as passed. The second validation checks if value is empty, stop the validation chain immediately and fail with message "must not be empty".

> We kept rest of the rule unchanged, but you can rewrite the third rule as `{validate: "failImmediatelyIf", value => !/[a-z]/.test(v), message: "must contain lower case letter"}`.

> You can use `skipImmediatelyIf` in first validation. It behaves same as `passImmediatelyIf` in this use case. The difference between `skip` and `pass` is that `bcx-validation` actually has 3 states for result: `pass`, `fail` and `skip` (considered neither pass nor fail). The final result generated by `validation.validate(...)` only contains error literals, the tri-state was not exposed to end user. State `skip` was designed to properly implement conditional validation (the `if` transformer).

Since chain of rules is considered a rule, you can use sub-chain inside a chain. Beware early break of sub-chain doesn't affect the outer chain. Here the last rule was still checked after early break in previous sub-chain.

<div><code-viewer value="var rule = [
  {validate: 'passImmediatelyIf', value: &quot;$value == 'NA'&quot;},
  {validate: 'failImmediatelyIf', value: '_.isEmpty($value)', message: 'must not be empty'},
  [
    {validate: /[a-z]/, message: 'must contain lower case letter', stopValidationChainIfFail: true},
    {validate: /[A-Z]/, message: 'must contain upper case letter', stopValidationChainIfFail: true},
    {validate: /\d/, message: 'must contain digit'}
  ],
  {validate: /_/, message: 'must contain underscore'}
];

validation.validate('a', rule);
// => [ 'must contain upper case letter', 'must contain underscore' ]" mode="js"></code-viewer></div>

With the introduction of chain control, it looks getting complicated. But fortunately, you will rarely use any of `passImmediatelyIf`, `skipImmediatelyIf`, `failImmediatelyIf`, `stopValidationChainIfFail` or `stopValidationChainIfPass`. They are meant to be used in defining new validator with composition.

Let's move on to [conditional validation](#/reference/if-transformer).
